For this weeks report (May 8), I learned how to use Firebase Authentication and Database. In the bigger picture, Firebase is a backend service with various different features and apps. Things like authentications, database, storage, hosting, etc. For CSE 405, the profressor wanted us to focus on Firebase Authentication which basically allows users to sign up, login, access data, have profiles, etc. On the technical side, you have a sign-up form on the front-end which will be used to capture user credentials. Then those credentials are sent to the server via a login method provided by the Firebase SDK. Then the server validates those credentials and sends it back as an authentication token to the browser. 

So on my website. Once you sign up or log in with just a fake email and password (must be atleast 6 characters long). You'll be able to view smartphone guides that people created and create some of your own as well. Each guide you create with content is collapsible. This was made using Firebase Database. The logged in user can also see his/her account info by clicking "account" in the tab header. And they can then sign out once they're done. That's the entire program. To run it, I installed an extension within Visual Studio called "Live Server." Then within the HTML code, I right clicked on a blank spot and selected "Open with Live Server" in the drop-down menu.

I am a beginner when it comes to Firebase so I followed a couple of tutorials on YouTube from a user named The Net Ninja (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCW5YeuERMmlnqo4oq8vwUpg) and I was able to create a website that allowed logged in users to see a load of smartphone tutorials.

I am by no means taking credit for all of this code. The HTML code is a template. But I do know what each line does and I made sure to include various comments within each file to explain what each line or section does. All of the firebase authentication code is in the auth.js file. Just a heads up, firebase.auth() is referenced in the "index.html" file as a constant "auth" variable. And firebase.firestore() is set to "db" in the "index.html" file. 

I also made a demo video showing how to use the website: https://youtu.be/vW0u98jviSA

